---
layout: post
category: technology
tag: clojure
---

# Fixtures

Fixtures allow you to run code before and after tests, to set up
the context in which tests should be run.

A fixture is just a function that calls another function passed as
an argument.  It looks like this:

{% highlight clojure %}
(defn my-fixture [f]
  ;;Perform setup, establish bindings, whatever.
  (f)  ;;Then call the function we were passed.
  ;;Tear-down / clean-up code here.
 )
{% endhighlight %}

There are two way of registering fixture in clojure: `:each` and `:once`.
We use `use-fixtures` to register fixtures.

## One time fixture

The fixture registered with `:once` will be called before any tests
are run and it will be pased a function to call that will invoke all
the tests. You can have a fixture that only runs once, around all
the tests in the namespace.

{% highlight clojure %}
(defn one-time-setup [])
(defn one-time-teardown [])

(defn one-time-fixture
  [f]
  (one-time-setup)
  (f)
  (one-time-teardown))

; One time fixture: use `:once` meta.
(use-fixtures :once one-time-fixture)

(testing "case 1")
(testing "case 2")
{% endhighlight %}

## Each fixture

The fixture registered with `:each` will be called before each tests
are run and it will be passed a function to call that will invoke every
test. Fixtures are run repeatedly, once for each test, they can be
attached to the current namespace like this,

{% highlight clojure %}
(defn each-setup [])
(defn each-teardown [])

(def each-fixture
  [f]
  (each-setup)
  (f)
  (each-teardown))

(use-fixtures :each each-fixture)
{% endhighlight %}

## Real World Example

{% highlight clojure %}
(defn test-client-fixture
  [f]
  (with-client (client-factory "localhost:11211")
    (try
      (f)
      (finally (spy/flush)))))

(clojure.test/use-fixtures :once test-client-fixture)

(deftest test-set-get
  (testing "Simple Set and then Get."
     (spy/set "set-get" 1 3600)
     (is (= 1 (spy/get "set-get")))))
{% endhighlight %}

Source: [spymemcat](https://github.com/soasme/spymemcat/blob/master/test%2Fspymemcat%2Fcore_test.clj)
