---
layout: post
category: technology
tag:
  - jenkins
  - "continuous integration"
---

# Jenkins

## Install: Using docker to run jenkins container

There is an [official jenkins image](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/jenkins/) that can
help you install jenkins rapidly. After installed docker, you just need to run

    $ docker pull jenkins

to download jenkins image, and then run

    $ docker run --name jenkins -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 jenkins

to quickly run jenkins in your host. Port 50000 is used to connect a slave agent.

All Jenkins data lives in folder `/var/jenkins_home`. We usually attach a volume to save
data:

    $ docker run -p 8080:8080 -v /var/jenkins_home /path/to/host/jenkins/workspace

By the way, we can always using

    $ docker cp jenkins:/var/jenkins_home /path/to/host/backup/workspace

to backup the directory.

## Configure: Using jenkins-job-builder to yamlize job configurations

[Jenkins Job Builder](http://ci.openstack.org/jenkins-job-builder/)
takes simple descriptions of Jenkins jobs in YAML format, and uses them
to configure Jenkins. You can keep your job descriptions in human readable text format in a
version control system to make changes and auditing easier. It also has a flexible template
system, so creating many similarly configured jobs is easy.

I like `Variable References` feature powered by yaml:

* pass an object (boolean, list or dict) to template
* Using [anchors and Alias](http://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2765878) to references to variables in template.

Example: 

{% highlight yaml %}
- scm:
    name: site-repo
    scm:
        - git:
            url: http://github-enterprise.service.consul/site/site.git
            branches:
                - master

- default_logrotate: &default_logrotate
    name: "default_logrotate"
    logrotate:
        numToKeep: 100

- job:
    name: ark-ci-online
    <<: *default_logrotate
    node: master
    scm:
        - site-repo
    builders:
        - gfw
        - shell:
            !include-raw tools/qaci/online.sh
    publishers:
        - archive:
            artifacts: "online.tag,ark_service_online.rev"
{% endhighlight %}

There are also many configuration item for jenkins plugins.
I will describe them in next post.
